# CS255_sys_analysis_-_design

The DriverPass project centered around building a web application to provide online learning to young student drivers, as well as the ability to schedule in-person driving lessons with DriverPass's  team of driving instructors.  One strength in this project was the ability to visualize parts of the system and translate those into diagrams that conveyed the behavior and functionality desired.  If I could revise one part of the project, I would choose to go more in-depth on some of my UML work, such as the Use Case or Sequence diagrams we built.  

Using the transcript from the interview with the company's CEO and CTO, I tried to enivison the exact waythat users would interact with the system.  The process needed to be fairly simple and auto-didactic to  allow users to pick up and use the services without a lengthy learning curve.  When a user is selecting an in-person lesson, for example,  it is more important to know when the student is available first and then filtering drivers based on that availability.  The sequence diagrams were designed with functionality and the flow of logic that I would look for as a user myself.  Functionality and ease-of-use are a winning formula time after time.

Target user input is crucial during analysis and design, otherwise a developer runs the risk of building either a) a system with features no one actually needs, or b) a system with features that no one knows how to use.  Collecting user requirements should flow naturally into requirements modeling, and user input should be repeated cyclically to ensure that user needs are always addressed.  In terms of classes and objects, my lynchpin concept is that the least amount of groups necessary for the desired functionality is always the primary place to start.  Unnecessary convolutions lead to overly-complex code and the opportunities for errors.
